# Documentation
## RawData
There are 6 datasets in total, 3 CRC, 2 EC, and 1 CMMRD. Each sample was stored as an R file which produces an object called "Result" when called.

"Result" is an indexed array of tables (size 24), each corresponding to a particular marker from a panel developed by Gallon et al

For each sample, there are three of these R files, separated by the D0, D1, and D2 folders.

In the D0 folder, each table contains the PCR-amplified read counts of the corresponding marker sorted into "bins" according to 2 features :

Standardized length

The standardized length of a read is given by its length subtracted by the reference allele length (as seen in hg19)
Note. These markers are quasimonomorphic, selected specifically for their minimal size polymorphism. This ensures that the allele lengths observed in the hg19 reference genome reliably represent what would have been detected through germline sequencing.

SNP allele

This refers to an SNP downstream of the microsatellite
For example, DEPDC2 has a reference allele length of 8 (see MarkerLengths.csv), so a read of length 7 with a T SNP will be sorted into the -1, T bin.

Demo :

```R
> source("RawData/NEWCRC/20170501/D0/E08_S83.R")
> Result[1]
$DEPDC2_SNP1

     A    T <NA>
  -1 0   26    0
  0  3 3842   14
  1  0   34    0
> names(Result[1]) # retrieves the index / marker
[1] "DEPDC2_SNP1"
# names(Result) will print all markers
> Result[[1]] # table only
     A    T <NA>
  -1 0   26    0
  0  3 3842   14
  1  0   34    0
# If the SNP of a read cannot be determined, it is put in the NA column
```

In the D1 folder, for each marker, reads were grouped by their UMI tags. Features were extracted from each group based on how commonly they occur; in the case of a tie, the group is excluded. The tables are generated by sorting each "group" into bins based on these extracted features (Figure 1).

> Figure 1. Process of table generation in D0 vs D1.

For D2, "groups" with only one member were excluded, otherwise the process is the same as in D1.

Each sample also has a phenotype (basically MMR classification) which is given in a separate csv/rds file.

### Datasets

- CRC

    - Jenny / CRC1
        - genotype : OGCRC/UMImsiMNRsJenny210421
        - phenotype : OGCRC/Data.Jenny.Coding.csv
    - CRC2
        - genotype : NEWCRC/20170501
        - phenotype : NEWCRC/Tumours.20190923.csv
    - CRC3
        - genotype : NEWCRC/20170809
        - phenotype : NEWCRC/Tumours.20190923.csv
- CMMRD
    - genotype : CMMRD/byUMIGenotypesRearranged
    - phenotype : CMMRD/SampleData.20220204.v2.rds
- EC
    - Man / EC1
        - genotype : EC/ManUMI/20220622
        - phenotype : EC/ManUMI/Manchester.EC.Samples.20240111.csv
    - Ohio / EC2
        - genotype : EC/OhioUMI/20220318, EC/UMIOhio/20220401
        - phenotype : EC/OhioUMI/Ohio.SampleData.20240111.csv